clickbait clickbait is not
really a problem for me as a content
creator
the problem i have most often is people
who accuse
me of making click bait and they then
criticize
or attack my videos not for something
they actually say but for something they
imagine to be my ulterior motive
the point i'm actually secretly
covertly driving at like full for a very
abstract example
there's an obsessive hater of this
channel who's been sending me
harassment threats defamation for for
years phandar sheriff defender
who is convinced if i make a video
talking about nina and randa and how
their comedy isn't funny
or their music videos are awful or
making any
particular point about nina miranda it
can't possibly be
that that's the real meaning my real
motivation in making the video
that i've come on to really talk about
that topic that's there
in the title and thumbnail no this must
be clickbait
it must be something else i'm driving at
and then he imagines
what it is i'm i'm driving at and then
criticizes me for that he ends up
criticizing me for things i've never
said
i don't mean i don't intend at all i
used to work
in book publishing i really think
to speak a little bit philosophically
about clickbait i really think click
bait is something that's been with us
long before we had the internet my
father
once received as a gift a big
hardcover respectable looking book
that was titled the history
of irish erotic art
from the early celtic period through the
renaissance
so he receives this book i completely
forget who gave him the book if i ever
if i ever knew
right he receives this book he looks at
the cover
he's completely baffled irish erotic art
my father was an art historian and a
museum curator you know he's thinking
ancient
celtic irish erotic art what could this
possibly be about you know
almost every culture in the world has
some history of erotic art whether it's
ancient egypt
or ancient china but you know ancient
greece and rome tons of
irish or whatever he opens the book
every single page is blank
and if you turn the book over and read
the back they really
leaned into the joke there were you know
quotations from from other
from alleged academics and experts
saying you know this book is really
compendius it really
really thoroughly researches and
discusses every example
uh this this sort of thing and the point
is you open the book and inside there is
nothing at all i remember i looked into
it and uh
the same publisher had done the same
joke again and again
by putting a different dust jacket a
different cover
on the same printed book so whoever was
came with this idea
made money out of it but just point out
that is
click bait without a mouse without a
click
without the internet and in terms of the
book publishing world
that's not a problem that's becoming
more marginal or more rare it's actually
becoming more common and more pernicious
i now have the experience of buying
books
on amazon over the internet where i
don't get to see the book i don't get to
open the book or you know leaf through
the book before buying it
and there are many cases where the title
of the book or the cover of the book
will not tell you what's inside will
really mislead you as there was inside
i think every single time so far i've
managed to get a refund maybe there are
maybe there are one times i'm forgetting
where i was really disappointed and i
was i was stuck with the book
anyway and was was stuck uh paying for
it but actually the scope for the
clickbait phenomenon
uh it goes far beyond the internet it
goes far beyond
youtube and what we're talking about
here in principle
is where the title of the video
or the cover image of the video what it
is you'd click on
what describes the article or the film
whatever it may be
is fundamentally misleading whether
that's for comedic purposes or not
whether that's in order to make money
reach a larger audience or not
this certainly happened in the golden
era of newspapers
a great deal uh tabloid newspapers were
most infamous for this for having
shocking headlines
and even the first few sentences of an
article seeming to promise you
that some terrible crime has been
committed some terrible some
exciting new evidence has been revealed
i still i still see this happening
with the british royal family that's the
only i don't know why it is but like
somehow people
feel they can get away with saying
anything it remembers the british royal
family
and people will pick this up and buy the
newspaper and then if they actually
start reading the article
they find in effect it's clickbait
there's nothing of the sort there at all
now my personal problem with this
is that i see the way in which the
culture of clickbait
gives people the license to criticize me
not for what my point actually is
and not for what my interests actually
are but for what they construe to be
my interests what they construe to be my
implied meaning which may not be
you know what i have to say at all now
i have made well over 1 000 videos
on my channel have we crossed 2 000 yet
or maybe getting closer to 2000 videos
i have had well over 4 million views we
are getting closer to
five million views now okay
i cannot say to you i have absolutely
never
made a video that by this criterion was
clickbait i can remember one
video where as a joke i really had an
intentionally misleading
title one video out of about two
thousand
um but it's it's very very rare
way way more than 99 of my videos
the title and the image you see before
you click on the view it really is
trying to tell you what the video is
about
now if you want to judge me for being an
idiot
or you want to judge me for having a
kind of sincere
interest in a lot of things you think
are boring or trivial
that's fair i would really encourage you
know fair criticism
and maybe that's part of what it is i
mean i know fandaar is not the only one
phandar is the craziest and most
passionate critic of this kind
i think some people kind of can't accept
that i would really sincerely be engaged
in a critique
of nina miranda or someone like
a natural vegan that there must be an
ulterior motive that this must be
clickbait there must be something else
i'm driving
but i am like all this stuff when i make
a youtube video
talking about batman and what i think is
wrong
with the latest batman movie that's what
the title says
that's what the image shows you and
that's really sincerely
what i'm talking about when i talk about
game of thrones sorry i was just
scrolling through my my recent videos
every single one i'm looking at several
hundred videos here
most of the time when i'm talking about
something quite trivial this way from my
own perspective
i have some kind of reasonably profound
point i want to make about it like from
my perspective
what i have to say about batman is
profound and important and interesting
even if batman is trivial and from my
perspective
what i have to say in my critique of a
natural vegan
and nina and randa and these other
personalities james aspie
maddie limberner personalities primarily
who have known through
through vegan activism some sometimes
some other way from my perspective
it actually is profound and worth
talking about
and i'm sincerely motivated by the the
topics at hand
now the other problem with the sort of
click bait mentality i don't mean the
mentality of people
creating clickbait but people perceiving
my work as clickbait
is that they're they're often
overlooking the extent to which there
are profoundly
important things that the two people
having the dispute through youtube
videos really care about
and an outsider might not even be able
to perceive what those things are so
this is one of the reasons why i'm
humoring fandar with this response video
phandar is not vegan phandar has no
interest in vegan activism and phandar's
interpretation
of why a natural vegan became furious
with me
is a hundred percent wrong what made a
natural vegan
snap from being kind of to some extent
my friend she was actually quite
positively disposed of she spoke
positively about me in a number of
videos she made videos specifically
uh supporting me she had the link to my
channel from her channel she did a lot
of stuff for a brief time
she was openly a fan of my channel um
spoke positive both of me as a person
and the channel
and then she snapped and became my enemy
she started saying vicious things to ask
me
why did that happen for many many years
she really passionately supported
propounded and cared about the
philosophy
of peter singer i don't know
to what extent she's changed to what he
said she's lost her passion or addressed
in the workpiece center
but i could i can definitely say peter
singer
meant more to her five years ago than
socrates
has ever meant to me or aristotle has
ever meant to me
she really like her sense of identity
her sense of why
she was vegan why she was utilitarian
the meaning of life what it was she
discovered and learned in her universe
degree
peter singer was a big deal to her
really big
inspiration in life and she was uh
she was hurt to hear me in such an
offhand
self-confident way just completely
insulting and denigrating and discarding
the intellectual tradition of peterson
like his work
and also his influence on others and
indeed the whole utilitarian tradition
before him
and all the people who followed his
footsteps which is which is sincere
now at that time i think i already had
made some videos talking about that in
in greater depth uh but part of what
she's saying because the the emails are
public
part of what she's furious about is that
i would dare to say these things without
backing them up without substantiating
them further and i did rush at that time
to say like okay i'll i'll explain
further what exactly my position is in
peterson
today there are at least 10 youtube
videos
talking about philosophy peter singer
veganism animal rights what the
conflicts are between them peter singer
his view of
intelligence and life and death and
murder and all these all these funny
things
i i mean it's it's a complicated
peculiar thing in the history of
philosophy
and peter singer is very unusual because
he's kind of an
academic philosopher but he's ended up
becoming famous on mainstream television
and look i have a human heart
i mean maybe when i was 14 or 15 years
old
i thought woody allen was a real
intellectual
maybe it was 13 i don't know i don't
know how far back this goes
and you know like you have this moment
of recognition
like woody allen is not a particularly
intelligent person
like woody allen you know he made a
couple of funny films in the 1960s and
everyone acts like he's this
intellectual but i mean
why why would anyone respect what you
have some point where you're
maybe an image you built up and you know
for me really like
what did it mean to be an intellectual
or be a creative person
uh in the 21st century i was looking to
people like woody allen that today i
just
laugh at i just score and see the most
no significance i see no value in their
work whatsoever
but look i have a human heart it is very
easy for me to relate to and i could
feel it in a natural vegan's videos
where she talked about peter singer
again this is
videos made more than five years ago now
i could tell that this really was a big
deal this thing she was really
passionate
it's very easy for someone to come in
from the outside
and just say oh no this is clickbait
you know this isn't what the dispute is
really about that's not what's really
going on here you're driving at
something else for some with some
ulterior motive some other reason no
unnatural vegan really cares about the
philosophy and intellectual
legacy of peter singer i'm really a very
harsh critic of it or you could say i
really despise it
what did a natural vegan do to try to
hurt me in response
she tried to frame me as being a
phony scholar of buddhism which she did
a very poor job of
now probably for a lot of other people
that would have really hurt their
feelings
you got the wrong guy i am a terrible
scholar but
you know okay go right ahead you know uh
i'm not real easy to
intimidate i'm not really it's not
really to hurt my feelings that way and
if you read the correspondence between
us
i'm saying to her things because you
know i didn't know she was going to
continue talking to him saying this like
do you know what it's like to really
work hard on something and research
something
for 10 years do you know what it's like
to really become an
expert in a field with like 10 years of
hard work
that involves learning a language and
sleeping under a mosquito net and
chopping firewood with an axe
and learning another language learning
another language so you can learn
another language
and studying the history in poland like
you know like think a little bit about
what i did
and what this means to me and i said
look if you want to criticize my work
on buddhism you're welcome great
nothing could be more welcome i would
love to have other youtubers or other
go ahead here are the links to my
articles read the articles
say i'm a terrible scholar of buddhism
or tell me where i'm wrong or tell
people where it is
great but if you're going to denounce me
as a scholar of buddhism actually look
at my work and think about what i did
during whatever you can pick five years
ten years whatever period of time you
want
you want to look at so you know in that
case it's kind of more hypothetical than
actual
but she felt i was striking out at her
and hurting her
by saying these insulting things about
peter singer from my perspective i'm not
i'm really i'm really genuinely
insulting peter cena
um and i think she tries to
she tries to hurt me in return expecting
that i'm going to be really defensive
if she starts to call me out of buddhism
so for an
outsider these things may be you know
maybe easily misinterpreted maybe easily
misrepresented
and certainly i've seen this happen
again again with many many disputes and
people now admittedly not all of my
conflicts with other youtubers
are so profound what i had to say about
nina and randa that a small number of
people remain
obsessed with for whatever reason
melissa is here off camera
i had an interview lined up once with
another vegan activist
this was a guy who uh he had experience
in the early days of anonymous for the
voiceless in chiang mai thailand he was
a white guy who was involved he got on
the ground level
with paul bashir and in chiang mai
thailand i thought we were going to have
a long conversation about
vegan activism and a whole maybe
politics of thailand maybe there were
kind of a lot of things worth talking
and the minute he gets on the phone with
me he wants to give me a morality
lecture
about nina he's never even seen the
video right
vegan foot soldier was that i think
three years or four years that he
hated me and basically sent me hate mail
and made
hateful comments about me on the
internet about what i allegedly said
about
nina miranda and eventually i
established like i talked to them about
it like periodically over a period of
like three years
and eventually we established that he
had never seen the video he had just
made up in his own imagination what
and when he when he finally did see the
video because they i
you know conferences like look do you
mean when i said this and i sent him two
times again
he said oh well that's like a way more
polite video you made later
covering up which is the first video i
said no dude that's the video that is
the video you never watched it you've
hated me for all these years or what you
think i said
you don't know what i said that old it's
not a more polite video million that's
the original video it's supposedly so
scandalous
so a small number of people have let
this um
blossom in their minds into something
it's it's really not
but look um at a very early age
this distinction between high culture
and low culture was something i learned
to
reject right my parents were communists
but they were also people who really
uncritically worshipped high culture
which is insert snarky remarks here
my parents were people who would just
completely uncritically assume
that there was more political
significance
to a new production of shakespeare's
king lear
or shakespeare's king henry viii can
have king emory the fifth
top head i don't know how many king
henry's shakespeare did
they would think there was more
political significance to
a new production of shakespeare like
this then there would be to say
um a mainstream movie like boys in the
hood
came out right so if you don't know the
film boys in the hood
had a lot of political significance for
a whole generation of people
the united states mary really did for
better or for worse
right um for absolutely no
valid reason something going on in an
art gallery
in paris or milan which would reach a
tiny number of people
and it would only reach people who were
already really inured to this art form
like
even if there's an exciting new painting
in that exhibition
it's being shown to an audience of
people who see an exciting new painting
every month that the people who go to
these art gallery openings it really has
very little impact but there could be
something really politically significant
happening
in rap music for me i mean when i was a
small
child i remember really responding to
the comedy of chris rock
openly political comedy of chris rock
about
you know basically the shadow cast by
the
the rise and fall of the black panthers
and 1960s radicalism the united states
american of course racial tension black
and white
these things really had political
significance and
also they might really have artistic
merit
you know worth talking about i became
very very skeptical at an early age of
the assumption
that you know there's this distinction
between high culture and low culture and
what happens in high culture is what
really matters i don't believe that
you know i don't um and this makes sense
but even within the vegan movement you
know i don't believe that
like i don't believe there's some sense
in which
uh gary francione uh presenting
an academic paper at a conference and
only 30 people ever listen to this
academic paper or read it or
see it on youtube this is so-called high
culture because it takes place on a
university campus
i don't think that is more meaningful
than the rise and fall of freely the
banana girl
you know for better or for worse for a
couple of years there freely was one of
the most
politically influential voices in
veganism i was one of the critics saying
was for worse but i'm someone i really
want to deal with
rap music and batman and freelee
and nina miranda i want to deal with
human nature as it is i want to deal
with human beings as they truly are
i do not address human beings as they
ought to be
right i do not write books appealing
to you know angels trapped in human
flesh
i write appealing to your flesh i make
youtube videos i make monologues
i'm speaking to you heart to heart flesh
to flesh
i'm someone who's all too human and you
are too
all right for me there's real sincerity
when i look at nina and randa whether
i'm
you know offering a criticism or whether
i'm saying something you know more
sympathetic or more appreciative which
if you watch all
all of our videos about nina miranda you
will actually sometimes see
there's an extent to which i can
sympathize with this struggle
um look really really briefly
because we're doing this for the fans
and we're also doing this for one
special fan out there called fandar
you know have you heard of the merrell
twins
nina and randa's whole channel is a
second-rate
imitation of the merrell twins
and the contrast between the two is
actually worth
philosophizing about briefly unto itself
nina randa lists their videos and then
click sort by most popular so you're
looking at their videos that the highest
number of views of all time and what are
you looking at
three million three million two million
two million two million
one point four million big numbers
right merrell twins
22 million 19 million
17 million 13 million they're on another
level
the mayoral twins started first
they became successful before nina
miranda
they always have been better looking
than
more talented than harder working then
and more successful than you know right
nina miranda's whole career
has been in the shadow of this other
pair of twins
living in some ways a parallel life
and they know each other and i'm sure
that makes it worse if you're looking at
the list of the most successful videos
that have ever been on nina and randy's
channel number three
is a guest appearance from the merrell
twins
and they did appear they did a song with
they appeared on the merrell twins
channel but they've been to each other's
houses they know each other
face to face too to some extent i don't
i don't think they're friends
and there's another contrast
when you look at the most successful
videos on nina miranda's
channel they're
all trying to exploit the sexuality
of nina miranda number one
is dirty truth or dare number two
another video titled dirty truth or dare
number three is the guest appearance
from the merrell twins
as i've mentioned before there were a
lot of videos of them doing
wearing blindfolds and licking their
boyfriends the lick my body challenge
and this kind of thing
and when you look over at the merrell
twins oh for some
reason that's that's not that's not what
i'm looking at
at all all right i've got a i got a
human heart
you know i can sympathize i really can't
sympathize with the struggle that
nina and iran have been through i can
even sympathize with the extent to which
their unearned success being entirely
handed to them by their father
makes the situation they're in now worse
or all the more tragic
to my knowledge just a couple months ago
they bought
if they didn't buy they leased or have a
long-term rental on
but they seemingly bought a studio where
it looked like they were going to
really crack down really start working
hard on making
making youtube videos they've renovated
a studio and then mysteriously in the
months since
nothing of the kind uh eventuated they
renovated stu
i can imagine the kind of struggle
they're in
as creative people now
a lot of others have done worse there
are a lot of other people
whose lives have really been ruined by a
brief period of
fame on uh on vegan youtube
sorry i'm forgetting the gal's name now
there was a skinny
blonde vegan the former girlfriend of
pantriotic
and she made a video recently talking
about the fact that her
income is fifty thousand dollars a year
her rent in los angeles which she says
she's lucky to pay is about two thousand
dollars
a month she got a huge amount of
university
debt she went to a very expensive
university and got a university degree
that is apparently completely
useless to her she had a brief period of
fame as uh
both doing asmr videos and being a vegan
iggy the fruit bat that was her name
izzy davis is he the fruit you know she
had a brief period of illness she's not
even vegan anymore
she doesn't have any significant number
of viewers anymore you know a couple
thousand here in there
look at henia mania
the rise and fall if anyone think about
what it's like to be honest openly
suicidal today there are a lot of people
for whom this
rollercoaster ride has turned out much
much worse
has ended on a much lower low than nina
arenda but look us
i'm not cruel or vicious about this i
can see
the trajectory for nina and miranda and
frankly i see it starting with the fact
that their rivals the merrell the
merrell twins
started their youtube channel in 2009
whereas nina and aranda who were groomed
for fame by their parents from birth who
had a social media career
literally while they were in diapers
because of who their parents were
they started their channel in 2013. the
merrell twins
have over 1.1 billion
views utterly dwarfing nina miranda's
career i've got a human heart
so and all of this stuff
i am sincerely interested in i don't
have an ulterior motive in this case
there's no more profound philosophical
issue as there was
in the fracas with a natural vegan like
this isn't about
the philosophical legacy of peter singer
or something equivalent of that
it isn't you know um
it's about the fact that we live in a
world where people like nina randa
people like vegan cheetah now known as
charles marlowe
were literally invited to appear on
stage
they were put on stage they were
platformed
by nina miranda's father and nina rana's
father basically
purchased his position as a leader
in the vegan movement so what would be
just a sort of funny footnote in history
that this
pair of twins who you know play the
guitar
badly and make awful music videos and
make comedy videos that aren't funny
you know they're really not um
for me has a lot more political
significance
than it might have for you or you or you
in the audience it has
more political significance and has
greater consequences
in my eyes it has consequences that
might be invisible
to someone like fandar who's just coming
in and regarding this from the outside
as someone who doesn't know about
veganism doesn't care about
the past present or future of the vegan
movement and when they
look at my videos no matter how honest i
am
in the title and the thumbnail saying
hey this is what i'm going to talk about
this is what we're going to talk about
this is why
and all my videos they come to a pretty
clear conclusion right
when they see that and they think no
that can't be
why he's making this video there must be
something else
going on here and the truth is there's
nothing else
going on here i'm i'm just someone
who who really cares
about these ethical issues about the
future of the vegan movement
about the future of life on planet earth
when i made videos about onision
they were not clickbait i was really
interested in talking about the ethical
issues raised
but whatever the drama was at the time
surrounding an instant when i made video
i made a video recently talking about
uh kevin smith and the amazing atheist
my motivations completely sincere
completely transparent and the
the reason i'm making the video is right
there in the title
it's not clickbait and i'm not trying to
like
steal viewers from kevin smith or the
amazing
or anything else right um
we have this great idiom in english you
know
occam's razor i think we need a new
idiom
where you stop and challenge yourself
and wait a minute
what if the simplest explanation for
what this person is doing and what this
person is saying
is that they really sincerely mean
exactly what it is that they say what if
the secret message that they're trying
to deliver
isn't so secret what if it's right there
in the title
what if it's right there in the
conclusion of the video what if what i'm
driving at
is exactly what i've been trying to say
all along
in 2020 click bait is a problem
it's a problem for creators it's a
problem people in the audience it's a
problem for a whole lot of people who
order a book in the mail
and then when the book arrives you know
it's not really what you were expecting
based on the on the title and the cover
and i do
think that part of our personal
integrity
as creators is to put a title on the
video
that lets you know what i'm talking
about lets you know where we're going
maybe it doesn't let you know the
conclusion i think you've got to be
sincere with your audience
and i have to ask the audience to
recognize
my sincerity and to criticize me
for the things i actually say not
something they imagine that i said
because they treat my content as if it
were clickbait